Now that we had a look at the box model,
we also implicitly got a first glimpse at shorthand properties, to be very precise,
we already use shorthand properties since we first started using background. Shorthand properties are
simply normal properties that combine the values of multiple other properties in a single property,
the so-called shorthand property, here are some examples.
We get some separate properties let's say, border width, style and color.
This is what we already saw and style is either dashed or solid let's say.
Now of course there are other ways to like dotted,
you can always find all available options in the reference, in the MDN reference for that property
but these are the individual properties that allow you to construct a border. If you only set two of
them and omit one,
the default for that property will be used which could lead to no border being displayed or the border
being solid
even though you want it to be dashed, well if you don't specify that, the default will be used.
There is a shorthand for this because it's of course a bit more cumbersome to always define a border
like this,
border width, style, color,
that's a lot to type.
Therefore we got shorthands and the shorthand for border would look like this,
it's just called border and then we simply assign the values for the different subproperties so to
say. Now order here doesn't matter as long as the subproperties don't use the same type of value which isn't
the case for border, for other shorthands,
it will be the case and I will highlight this and tell you how to circumvent this once it is the case.
So for border, we could mix the order of the arguments here, of the values in whichever way we want, the
core is that
this will be interpreted in exactly the same way as it is on the left.
Another example would be margin,
we didn't even use that notation until now,
we use the one where we just had margin colon and then 20 pixels.
Now actually the margin has a couple of shorthands,
it's always just margin but you could write it like this
and this would read as top, right, bottom and left,
so this is a shorter way of setting the margins for different directions.
If you want to set the top and bottom and left and right to the same,
you could use this notation,
the first value is then set for the top and bottom margin,
the second one for left and right and if you want to use the same margin on all sides as we did it, then
you would use margin with one value,
now this will be applied to all sides.
These are shorthand properties,
we use a lot of shorthands in CSS and I will always mention them once we use one or once we can use
one.
Again we already did it for background,
I'll dive deeper into what background covers or which other values are part of background
later in the course once we also add background images. It's important that you should use shorthands
if you have the chance to do so, simply because it's cleaner and shorter code
but you can always use the longer version and what you can also do is you can define a shorthand version
and later let's say in another class with a higher specificity, you could overwrite one part of that
if you for example want to keep the border color and only change the width, you'd define the border shorthand
first and then in the overwriting rule,
you'd just define the border width, it will still take the old set up from the shorthand and then only overwrite
that single part of it.
So that's also a nice way of working with shorthands
but again, this will all be something we see in the course.